# FASAStarTrekRPG (Current Version: 1.1)
This contains my character builder for the FASA Star Trek RPG of the 1980s.

This application is in beta, so bugs and feature requests should be directed to me through my blog at https://gsllcblog.com/contact-me/. You can see all my prior work on my FASA Star Trek RPG Resources page at https://gsllcblog.com/fasa-star-trek-rpg-resources/. This includes an application from 2012 that does everything *except* player character generation. It provides quick creation of solar systems, NPCs across all races and roles (sentient and not), MCPs for starships, and balanced starship battlegroups. The idea of this application is to allow you to create a legal player character quickly and easily, which means that it hinders you from making mistakes during that complicated process.

This leads to a key point: Access is, by its nature, a limited tool. First and foremost, to even run this software, you must have MS Access installed on your machine. That in turn requires a subscription to MS Office. If you don't have one, you're out of luck, but for the record, Access is included with personal and family subscriptions. For users of Apple products, you're almost completely out of luck. To run Access on Apple products requires some workarounds I don't fully understand, so I can't even help you there. However, if you have MS Access on your computer, then using this software is as simple as downloading the application to your hard drive, then double-clikcking on it. That's it. No installation routine is required because it's bootstrapping off of you pre-existing Access installation,

But the restrictions don't end there. Because Access isn't nearly what one would call a robust development environment, software developing within it has complications. An example of how this plays out: To enforce the rules of character creation, those rules must be enforced draconianly or not at all. I chose the former, and that choice has consequences. If, for example, you change anything on the Branch School tab for your Federation character, everything that you entered that occurs after branch school is wiped out, and there’s not necessarily going to be a warning given. This can be frustrating, but on the flip side, 1) you’re supposed to do that anyway during character creation; and 2) it’s a digital character builder, so lost work can be replaced quickly and easily (though your new set of skill rolls might not be as good the next time around). Flipping to the other side once again, some things are *not* enforced particularly well. However, those issues can generally be avoided by players not looking to cheat. If you follow the flow of character creation in the proper order, you’ll have a hard time, for example, giving your character more skill points than the character should have.

Still, if you can break the application, please do and let me know what I need to revise. I’m far more concerned about bugs than I am adding features. Besides a few simple things, I'm going to save new features for the web-based application I’m planning. Contrary to my previous claims, I will _not_ be adding Orion PC generation to this app. It's far too complicated because Ruddies, greens, green slave women, greys, and half-breeds among the bunch are all generated differently, and those differences are non-negligible.

One bug deserving a warning occurs when you load an existing character with the purpose of advancing it. Your data will be corrupted if you attempt to advance a character too quickly using. To be more precise (and clearer), after each session, and especially after completing an entire adventure, your character can have their skills increased. This works well. However, if your game has the character reassigned to a new ship, then all the adventuring you’ve done up until that point represents a completed tour. So, you can add a tour to the character’s history (representing the prior game play), then reassign the character to the new ship. This also shouldn’t produce an error. However, if you add a tour, and then immediately add a _second_ tour, the data may be corrupted. How do you know this has happened? First, I imagine you'll get an error message that crashes the application. Second, if it doesn't crash, one telltale sign of the corruption is Chinese characters suddenly appearing in some of the fields (among other things less obvious). If that occurs, don't re-save the character, which will corrupt the file on your hard drive. Instead, just close out the application, then reload the character file from your hard drive. You'll probably lose the 30-60 seconds of work you did, but I'm sure you can live with that.

Note, however, that adding two tours at once isn’t something you should _ever_ do. Let’s say your character is serving on an exploration ship, and the GM and players agree that the next assignment they want to play will be a military assignment. If you add the exploration tour to the character, then you should reassign the character to the military ship. There’s no reason to add a colonization tour between the two if you aren’t actually going to play out that colonization tour. I don’t know how to make that make sense, but the bottom line is this: If you load an existing character into an Advance Character form, then add a tour to the character’s service record, immediately close out that Advance Character form before attempting to add a second additional tour. Adding two tours in a row corrupts the data. This is yet another silly quirk in Access that I haven’t yet figured out.

Another thing of which I'm well aware is that some of the drop-down lists include data they shouldn't. For example, if you want to learn about Klingon culture, you may be given a choice between Klingon culture, Imperial Klingon culture, human-fusion Klingon culture, and Romulan-fusion Klingon culture. The correct choice should always be Klingon culture, because it covers all three variant species of Klingon. Still, the fact you have those other options will lead to mistakes in data entry, and your skill with Klingon culture may be diluted by having your points spent elsewhere. Fortunately, in situations where something like this occurs, you should have all those skill points clumped together on your character sheet, so calculating your actual score should require only very quick math. Still, the point remains: I need to clean up a lot of those lists. By all means, point them out to me to make sure I don't miss any.

As for how to use the application, for the most part the instructions appear on the application screens themselves as italicized, red text. There’s only one screen where the instructions couldn’t fit: “The Broadening” for creating Romulan characters. There, you instead hit a button labeled, “Instructions” to receive instructions for that screen. If the instructions aren't clear, please let me know. I'm obviously constrained by the space available on the screen, so an "Instructions" button may be required more often than I'm using it.
